
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM)
Q4 2018 Results Conference Call
January 15, 2019  8:30 AM ET

EPS  of $1.98 missed by $0.23
Revenue of $26.80B (4.1%) missed by $100.00M




Revenue Data:


Please refer to disclaimer at the back of the presentation.
 
Starting on Page 1 the firm reported fourth quarter net income of $7.1 billion and EPS of $1.98 on revenue of nearly $27 billion with a return on tangible common equity of 14%.

 
For the full year 2018 the firm reported revenue of $111.5 billion and net income was $32.5 billion both clear records even adjusting for the impacts of tax reform.

 
Non-interest revenue was down slightly with lower market levels impacting Asset Wealth Management fees and Private Equity losses being offset by higher Card fees and Auto lease growth in CCB.
The increase is related to investments we’re making in technology marketing real estate and front office as well as revenue-related costs including growth in Auto.

 
Revenue of $111.5 billion is also record and was up nearly $7 billion or 7% year-on-year $4.3 billion of which was higher net interest income on higher rates with growth and Card margin expansion being offset by lower markets NII.
 
Non-interest revenues was up $2.5 billion or 5% driven by CIB Markets and growth in Consumer being offset by Private Equity losses and the impact of spread widening on FCA.
And although we are showing modest positive operating leverage on a managed basis remember our revenues were impacted by lower growth in Cards given tax reform.
In Consumer & Business Banking revenue was up 18% on higher deposit NII driven by margin expansion.
Home Lending revenue was down 8% driven by lower net production revenues in a low volume highly competitive environment.

 
And of note while not a material driver of overall expense revenue headwinds here were offset by lower net production expense.
And Cards Merchant Services & Auto revenue was up 14% driven by higher Card NII although loan growth and margin expansion lower card net acquisition costs principally Sapphire Reserve and higher Auto lease volumes.
Card revenue rate was 11.6% for the quarter and 11.27% for the year as expected.
CIB reported net income of $3 billion and ROE of 10% on revenue of $7.2 billion for the fourth quarter.

 
Fourth quarter IB revenue of $1.7 billion was up 3%.
Total revenue was $3.2 billion down 6% reported and down 11% adjusted for the impact of tax reform and Steinhoff margin loan loss last year.
As a result fixed income markets in particular were challenging with revenue down 18% adjusted.
Weaker performance across rates credit trading and commodities was partially offset by good momentum in emerging markets.
 
Equities revenue was up 2% adjusted a solid end to a record year.
Client continued to do well but we saw client deleveraging over the course of the quarter and cash derivatives were solid in a tougher environment.
 
Treasury services revenue was $1.2 billion up 13% driven by growth in operating deposits as well as higher rates but also benefitting from fee growth on higher volumes.
Security services revenue was a $1 billion up 1%.
The comps and revenue ratio for the quarter and for the year was 28%.
 
Moving to commercial banking on page seven.
Excluding this revenue was up 3% driven by higher deposit NII.
Gross IB revenue of $600 million was down 1% year-on-year but up 4% sequentially on a strong underlying flow of activity particularly in M&A.
Full-year IB revenue was a record $2.5 billion up 4% on strong activity across segments in particular middle market banking which was up 8%.
 
Deposit balances were up 1% sequentially as client cash positions are seasonally highest toward year-end although down 7% year-on-year as we continue to see migration of non-operating deposits to higher yielding alternatives.
Expense of $2.6 billion was flat as continued investments in advisors and in technology were offset by lower performance-based compensation and lower revenue-driven external fees.
 
For the quarter we saw net long-term outflows of $3 billion with strength in fixed income more than offset by outflows from equity and multi-asset products.
While it’s too early clearly to give guidance on fee revenues it’s also fair to say that this quarter market is still calmer and more positive and capital market pipelines are strong.
And finally as I said we expect credit to remain favorable across products.
 
So to close while the markets in the fourth quarter were more challenging we should not lose sight to the fact that 2018 was a strong year indeed a record for revenues net income and EPS both reported and adjusted for tax reform.
So the way bank stocks have performed clearly investors are starting to worry about revenue trends near-term and of course credit which you addressed.
I’m wondering if the revenue trends continue to be weaker than expected if the overhead ratio of 57% that you posted in ‘17 and ‘18 is something that you could continue to level off to or will the investment horizon be more of a dominant factor when we’re thinking about the overhead ratio.
 


Marianne Lake


 
Yes.
The first is just to remind you that ‘17 and ‘18 I would look at a GAAP rather than a managed basis because of the adjustments to our revenues from tax reform.
But that said we have -- while we don’t set expense target nor do we set overhead ratio targets we have given you some outlook that would suggest that we continue to believe that combination of revenue growth and expense discipline notwithstanding the investments that we’ve been making we should see our overhead ratio continue to be stable to trending down to the kind of mid-50 so 55ish%.
I guess how do you think about the strategy in cards right now? And can that -- I think the revenue yield in the card business was up 7 bps to 11.57.
Jamie it seems like you guys are very happy with the year with all the record revenues and earnings.
Is that because you’ve got very strong hedging strategies in place and that the decline in FICC revenues mainly was due to lower volumes?
 


Jamie Dimon


 
There were no marks.
 


Marianne Lake


 
There were no marks.
But what is some of the expense flexibility and where would it come from if the revenues slide.
2019 over ‘18 you wouldn't expect to see necessarily the same clip up that you saw last year we did accelerate investments in ‘18 and so more of the growth will be revenue related but still decent investments as the opportunity is still good to do that.
 


Matt O'Connor


 
Okay.
Similarly something like auto lease where we grew our auto lease business revenues and expenses strongly in 2018 and that will be in our run rate in the first quarter.
We are going to see nicely growth year-over-year much more because of revenue growth than the corporate investment of both year-on-year not the same level as last year.
We continue to have a bit of that mix shift in the first quarter and it’s a market opportunity.
 


Brian Kleinhanzl


 
And then a separate question on I know it’s not a big revenue driver anymore but within mortgage banking you had a negative gain on sale in the quarter.
So that’s not a forecast for the future that you’d definitely get those revenues.



Expense Data:

At the end of the year the adjusted expense was $63.3 billion up 6% which brings our overhead ratio to 57% for the year even as we continue to make very significant investments across the franchise.

 
And of note while not a material driver of overall expense revenue headwinds here were offset by lower net production expense.

 
Expense of $7.1 billion was up 6% driven by investments in technology and marketing and Auto lease appreciation partly offset by lower FDIC charges and other expense efficiencies.
Credit adjustments and other was a loss of $243 million reflecting higher funding spreads on all derivatives.
 
Finally expense of $4.7 billion was up slightly with continued investments in technology and bankers and volume-related transaction costs partly offset by lower FDIC charges and lower performance-based compensation.
Excluding this expense was up 5% driven by continued investment in the business in banker coverage as well as in technology and product initiatives.
 
Loans were up 2% year-on-year and flat sequentially.
Expect expense to be up mid-single-digits year-on-year obviously market dependent primarily annualization effects.
But that said we have -- while we don’t set expense target nor do we set overhead ratio targets we have given you some outlook that would suggest that we continue to believe that combination of revenue growth and expense discipline notwithstanding the investments that we’ve been making we should see our overhead ratio continue to be stable to trending down to the kind of mid-50 so 55ish%.
But the fourth quarter are you happy with the fourth quarter given expenses credit fees?
 


Jamie Dimon


 
I’m fully happy with it.
I wanted to circle back on the expense flexibility.
But what is some of the expense flexibility and where would it come from if the revenues slide.
So I would say first of all that you saw that from 2013 through ‘16 we had a pretty structural expense reduction program associated with simplifying our businesses.
The way I would say it is that we continue to drive for expense discipline.
And so marketing expense for example is one area where you would say there's pretty sizeable and immediate flexibility.
Just wanted to understand a little bit more on the expense side.
The question is on the expenses there is flexibility there but yet I know you’ve guided to up single digits in 1Q ‘19.
Similarly something like auto lease where we grew our auto lease business revenues and expenses strongly in 2018 and that will be in our run rate in the first quarter.



Margin Data:

Revenue of $111.5 billion is also record and was up nearly $7 billion or 7% year-on-year $4.3 billion of which was higher net interest income on higher rates with growth and Card margin expansion being offset by lower markets NII.
 
Non-interest revenues was up $2.5 billion or 5% driven by CIB Markets and growth in Consumer being offset by Private Equity losses and the impact of spread widening on FCA.
In Consumer & Business Banking revenue was up 18% on higher deposit NII driven by margin expansion.
And Cards Merchant Services & Auto revenue was up 14% driven by higher Card NII although loan growth and margin expansion lower card net acquisition costs principally Sapphire Reserve and higher Auto lease volumes.
Total revenue was $3.2 billion down 6% reported and down 11% adjusted for the impact of tax reform and Steinhoff margin loan loss last year.
Assets and wealth management reported net income of $604 million with a pretax margin of 23% and an ROE of 26% for the fourth quarter.
And for the year net income was nearly $3 billion pretax margin at 26% and an ROE of 31%.
But generally over time we would still expect those trends.
 


Erika Najarian


 
And just as a follow-up question the market is also thinking that the last rate hike from the Fed was December and I'm wondering how we should think about the dynamics of net interest income and more specifically net interest margin and deposit pricing if December was indeed the last rate hike for some time.
 


Marianne Lake


 
So I would say first of all just to say that the question mark about whether that’s a pause or a stop; is it the end of the cycle we don’t think so.
So we are creating tailwinds but it's also true we talked about the fact that if you go back to 2014-2015 that we had expanded our credit box we'd expanded it intentionally at higher risk-adjusted margins.
I would also say that coming back to the first quarter that actually the market could be quite constructive to fixed income into the third quarter given a more dovish Fed supporting corporate margin corporate default rates are going to stay pretty low and we do have time.
Then so if anything marginally we had more upgrades but it’s just -- there is nothing to see right now in our portfolios and we are looking.
 


Jamie Dimon


 
We look for reasons to put up reserves not to take them down.
 


Marianne Lake


 
We are more paranoid than you are.
 


Glenn Schorr


 
Last one obviously markets all went down in the fourth quarter and we had some freeze-ups if you will in high yield first time in like 10 years.
Thanks for the color.
 

Operator

 
Our next question is from Mike Mayo of Wells Fargo Securities.
 


Mike Mayo


 
A follow-up on the net interest margin two sides to the question one is commercial loan pricing.



EPS Data:

Please refer to disclaimer at the back of the presentation.
 
Starting on Page 1 the firm reported fourth quarter net income of $7.1 billion and EPS of $1.98 on revenue of nearly $27 billion with a return on tangible common equity of 14%.


 
Shifting for the full year results on Page 3 we have posted net income for the year of $32.5 billion a return on tangible common equity of 17% and EPS of $9 a share.

And finally as I said we expect credit to remain favorable across products.
 
So to close while the markets in the fourth quarter were more challenging we should not lose sight to the fact that 2018 was a strong year indeed a record for revenues net income and EPS both reported and adjusted for tax reform.